# Introduction

The consensus mechanism/algorithm, which orders transactions and guarantees the integrity with the consistency of the blockchain across geographically distributed nodes, is essential to blockchains, which are the backbone of groundbreaking decentralized ledger technology and cryptocurrency. It provides secure, accountable, immutable, and low-cost solutions. Thus, it has shown great potential in various sectors such as ﬁnancial services, energy trading, supply chain management, the Internet of Things (IoT), and so on \[1].

The consensus algorithms largely determine the performance of the distributed system, especially for blockchains, such as transaction throughput, latency, node scalability, security level, etc.

Different consensus algorithms can be considered depending on application scenarios and performance requirements. In the case of a permission-less public blockchain, nodes are allowed to join or leave the network without permission and authentication; therefore proof based algorithms such as Proof-of-Work (PoW) \[2], Proof-of-Stake (PoS) \[3] and their variants are commonly used in many public blockchain applications, where cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin is the most well-known. Proof-based algorithms are designed with excellent node scalability performance through node competition, which is essential to deal with the double-spending problem. However, they could be very resource-demanding. For instance, recently published estimates of bitcoin’s electricity consumption are wide-ranging, on the order of 20-80 TWh annually, or about 0.1% −0.3% of global electricity consumption \[4].

Also, these consensus mechanisms have other limitations, such as long transaction conﬁrmation latency and low throughput. For instance, the Transaction Per Second (TPS) is limited to 7 in Bitcoin and about 15 in Ethereum, while the transaction conﬁrmation delay is typically as considerable as 10 minutes in Bitcoin and 15 seconds in Ethereum \[5]. It is worth pointing out that the computational requirement of Proof-based consensus varies from one to another. A notable example of non- computing Proof-based consensus is an InterPlanetary File System (IPFS), a distributed ﬁle system that uses the concept of proof-of-space/ space-time \[6]. Though Proof-based consensus has been primarily seen in the applications of the public blockchain, it has a limited generic distributed system and blockchain coverage, as it is still incrementally resource demanding. The search for voting-based consensus for blockchain and a new generation distributed system is imminent.

Unlike the public blockchain, the private and consortium blockchains prefer to adopt lighter consensus protocols such as PBFT, Paxos \[7], and Raft \[8] \[9] to reduce the amount of computational power and improve the transaction throughput \[10]. They have been widely used in general distributed systems for data synchronization. Meanwhile, their property is also critically important to the application scenarios of the blockchain-enabled IoT ecosystem, typically composed of low-cost and low-power devices. Though some private chain suitable consensus only enables the Crash Fault Tolerance (CFT) \[8], as it does not protect the integrity of transactions from malicious attacks, they are acceptable for private blockchains where the nodes are trusted.

This paper proposes a hybrid multi-layer PBFT consensus mechanism called Covenant. Since it replaces the linear structure of PBFT with a hybrid multi-layer structure to increase its scalability and security and decrease the message complexity, we call it a new BFT model as Hybrid BFT (HBFT).

In Covenant, we have used the advantages of various theoretical and practical consensus mechanisms, including RAFT, Multi-layer BFT, Proof of Time, Proof of Correctness, Proof of Stake, Proof of Uptime, and Multi-threshold BFT.

Section 1 outlines the HBFT consensus model, its consensus flow, safety, and liveness. Section 2 Outlines the HBFT model used in the Covenant consensus used by Initium. Section 3 discusses some probable problems and their implemented solutions.&#x20;
