# 2.1 Overview

In this section, we will discuss the implementation of the HBFT consensus model in the Initium blockchain, which is called Covenant.&#x20;

By keeping the main concepts of the HBFT, the Covenant consensus improves the scalability, security, decentralization, and performance of the HBFT to the next level.&#x20;

The main differences between Covenant and the standard HBFT are as follows:

* Covenant is being developed in Rust language. Rust solves problems associated with C/C++, such as garbage collection and security. Therefore, Covenant is memory efficient.&#x20;
* The nodes in the Covenant consensus have four statuses including follower, candidate, supervisor, and prime.&#x20;
* The Prime node sets the universal timestamp based on Proof of Time (PoT) which provides all nodes in the network with a central time reference for checking the events and views.
* In case of Prime node failure, the Supervisor nodes can reply to the client directly.&#x20;
* The Prime node distributes the message $$M$$ among the Supervisor nodes and supervisor nodes distribute them in FIFO (first-in-first-out) order to the subordinate nodes in the Legion.
* Every verifier nide $$V$$only needs to verify its assigned $$M$$ and reply to the Supervisor, while after verification its dedicated message, it will also verify other messages assigned to the other verifiers in the Squad. When all nodes in the Squad verified the total assigned messages, they reach a consensus, update the state, and reply to the Supervisor node.&#x20;
* The Supervisor node is the main node in every Legion that certifies the consensus and replies to the Prime node. For this, the Supervisor node needs ⅔ of its subordinate nodes to reach the consensus.&#x20;
* By reaching a consensus, the Supervisor node ensures that all nodes in the Legion, including those which have not verified the state, have verified the state.&#x20;
* Covenant is a semi-leader-based consensus which means the leader node (Prime) is elected by the supermajority votes of all available nodes in the network. In case of Prime node failure, any Supervisor node that its subordinate Legion has reached the consensus can direcly reply to the client.&#x20;
* Supervisor nodes are elected by the available nodes in the network based on their received votes during the Prime election. It means that those nodes that have not received the highest vote in the network are still eligible to be elected as the Supervisor nodes.&#x20;
* Every Legion consists of one Supervisor node and a minimum of five followers and a maximum of 20 followers. The formation of Legions depends on the number of available nodes in the network.
* The Legions with a higher number of followers are considered as the Reference nodes. It means in case of Prime failure, a Supervisor node with the Reference position $$S_R$$ will directly reply to the client.&#x20;
* Covenant is a low-latency consensus model since it reduces the number of messages significantly.&#x20;
* Covenant consensus is a two-phased consensus consisting of the Clustering Phase and the Consensus Control Phase.&#x20;

